By the end of this episode, you will
know exactly how to get your most viewed
Instagram story possibly of all time.
And while pretty much nothing is
guaranteed on social media, this is as
close to a guarantee as I can get.
[music]
And I say that because the strategies
that I'm going to be sharing with you in
this episode have proven to be
effective. Within our InstaClubhub, 97%
of the most viewed stories, as reported
by our members, were following the
strategies that I'm about to share with
you today. So, of course, there are
always exceptions and outliers, but the
blueprint that I'm about to give you is
almost foolproof. But before we get into
that, we need to make sure that we
understand and are on the same page
about the purpose of Instagram stories.
And don't skip this part because this is
important. Instagram stories are a
unique kind of content that exists
unlike any other kind of content on any
other social media. Instagram stories,
since their inception, have been all
about personalized, raw, authentic,
genuine, in-the-moment content. Unlike
YouTube videos like the one you're
watching right now, which is very
polished and edited and goes through
hours of refinement. Unlike Instagram
Reels that are scripted and edited and
filtered before upload, Instagram
stories are supposed to be the opposite.
Instagram stories are about
documentation, not creation. And so,
because of this, Instagram stories are
the best place on Instagram, maybe the
best place on all of social media, to
build trust with your audience. And they
do that because it's kind of like
dating. Your Instagram followers can
tune into your story day after day and
see these little peaks into your daily
life. They can see what you're going
through, what you're struggling with,
the highs and the lows. They can see all
of the different interests that you
have. If you're someone who hates the
idea of niche, you should love Instagram
stories because on Instagram stories,
you don't really need to have a niche.
The people who are viewing your stories
are the people who have already followed
you. They already know your niche. They
already know the value that you provide.
And now they're tuning into your
Instagram stories to peel the curtain
back a little bit and get to know you on
a deeper or maybe more personal level.
And so, with that being said, for the
vast majority of the time, I recommend
using your Instagram stories for exactly
that purpose. I don't think most of the
time your goal on your Instagram stories
should be to maximize views. Instead, I
think that you should strategically
maximize views when you have a launch or
a sale or a promotion or a message that
you really want people to hear. When you
have a post that you really want people
to see. That is when you want to get the
most views possible. If you are using
the strategies that I'm sharing with you
today on every single one of your
stories day after day after day, it will
have diminishing return. Many of these
strategies will lose their luster. They
will become less special and thus less
effective. And so, while initially you
might have a huge spike of views, that
will go down over time and eventually
you'll be left right back where you
started and these strategies won't work
at all. So, most of the time, let's say
75% of the time or more, I don't want
you to follow the strategies that I'm
sharing in today's episode. I instead
want you to just focus on documentation.
Taking little photos, little videos,
little boomerangs throughout your day.
Sharing posts that inspire you. Sharing
quotes that get you going. Sharing
struggles that you're dealing with and
triumphs that you've achieved. The big
and the small. And just being honest so
the people can get a window into who you
are. But, with all of that being said, I
know that's not why you clicked on
today's episode. You clicked on today's
episode because you're like, "Brock,
tell me the facts about how do I
actually get my most viewed story ever?"
And I'm going to do that in just a
moment. But, before we can talk about
the strategies that will actually boost
your stories, I need to share with you
the things that you are probably doing
right now as we speak. Like I bet if you
pull up your Instagram story right now
while you're watching or listening to
this, you might have already done some
of these things and these things are
actually hurting your story views. So,
you could do everything to build the
perfect car, but if you're slapping
cheap wheels on it, you're not going to
get very far. I could give you the
strategies to run the fastest mile of
your life, but if you're wearing
flip-flops at the time, you're not going
to be as fast as you could. So, here are
the five mistakes that I recommend that
you stop doing on your Instagram stories
because these will hurt your views.
Number one is sharing feed posts to
stories. This one can often be very
confusing for people because sometimes I
will recommend sharing your feed post to
your story. So, please allow me to
explain. Essentially, there are
different strategies to achieve
different goals. If your goal on any
given day or with any given feed post,
reels, photos, and carousels is to get
the most views on that feed post, well,
then I would recommend sharing it to
your story. If you have a reel that is a
promotional reel, if you have a reel
that is a sale, if you have a reel that
you want to get a lot of views, share it
to your story. But, in doing so, I also
want you to understand that your story
views for that day will be lower than
what they could have been if you didn't
share the reel. On the other hand, if
your goal on a particular day is to get
more story views, you don't necessarily
care if you get the maximum possible
views on your reel, but you really want
the maximum possible views on your story
on that day, then do not on that day or
anytime around that day, before or
after, share your feed post or anyone
else's feed posts to your story. It
doesn't matter if it's a reel, a photo,
or a carousel. It doesn't matter if you
posted it or if someone else posted it.
If there is a feed post shared onto your
story, your story will most likely get
less views. And not to get too lost in
the weeds here, but basically Instagram
did some sort of focus group or internal
study a few years ago and they found
that a lot of people reported back
saying that they don't enjoy seeing feed
posts on stories. This is an
oversimplification, but basically people
go to stories to watch stories and they
go to the feed to watch the feed. Now, I
know there are exceptions to that. I
know that there are plenty of people who
really like when they see a reel or a
photo or a feed post shared on stories
cuz it's like, "Oh, hey, I wouldn't have
seen that otherwise. That's a great
reminder to go watch it." I get that,
but generally speaking, this is what the
focus group told Instagram. People don't
like seeing feed posts on their stories.
So, if you don't want to hurt your story
views, don't share any feed posts to
your stories. Speaking of sharing to
stories, the second thing that will hurt
your story views is re-sharing someone
else's story to your own. Now, there are
two different versions of this. The one
version has been around for quite a
while, and that's when someone else tags
you on their story. So, let's say you're
hanging out with a friend and they tag
you and they're like, "Hey, hanging out
with such and such, beach day,
whatever." Or let's say you're speaking
on a stage, or you have a podcast, or
whatever. Someone tags you on their
story, for the last few years, you have
had the option to add to your own story.
With just a click of a button that
Instagram pops up, you can re-share
their story onto your own. This is a
great way to say thank you. It's a great
way to provide social proof of, "Hey,
look all of my followers, these other
people are tagging me. I spoke at this
event, or I had this great podcast, and
other people are posting about it." And
so, it kind of can create a little bit
of FOMO, or social proof. Those are the
benefits of sharing someone else's story
to your own. But, like I said, doing so
will also usually result in less views.
The second way to do this, the newer way
to do this, is with the brand new
feature that I talked about in an
episode just a few weeks ago, which is
that you can now share stories. For the
first time in the history of Instagram,
you can share someone else's public
story to your own. So, if you go on
Instagram right now, and I hope on the
day that you're watching this, I have a
story posted at the time. If you go to
my Instagram story, Brock O'Malley
Johnson, and you tap on that little
paper airplane button, you could
theoretically repost my story onto your
own. Now, when you do this, it does not
make it look like you posted my story.
Like, it doesn't look like it's your own
story. It'll kind of be indented, and my
profile picture and my username will be
up at the top, so it'll be very clear
that you are kind of amplifying or
boosting my story for your followers to
see. But again, doing this will hurt
your story views. So, if you are really
trying to get your story views up, limit
the amount of story resharing that
you're doing. As someone who cooks about
95% of their meals at home, and no
that's not an exaggeration, usually the
only meal that Tay and I eat out each
week is our sushi Saturday. What we eat,
what we prepare, it matters a lot to us.
And that's why I'm so excited to
introduce you to our newest sponsor,
HelloFresh. HelloFresh allows you to
choose between more than 100 recipes
every single week, including cuisines
from all around the world, and bigger
portions that satisfy everyone. Over 35
of those weekly recipes are high protein
recipes, which fires me up, and it
allows me to feel great because I know
that I'm eating wholesome ingredients,
like sustainably sourced seafood and
100% antibiotic and hormone-free
chicken. And of course, most important
of all is how it tastes, and let me tell
you it actually tastes really good. This
helps me be a better business owner
because I'm able to eat meals that taste
good and help me feel satisfied. I don't
have to spend as much time thinking or
prepping each meal, and I can make sure
that I'm hitting my protein goals in the
process. Go to hellofresh.com/byt10fm
to get 10 free meals plus a free
Zwilling knife, which is a $144.99
value on your third box. This offer is
only valid while supplies last. Free
meals applied at discount on your first
box for new subscribers only and varies
by plan. The third thing that you are
likely doing on the regular that is
hurting your story views is adding a
link sticker to your stories. Now, I
need to make sure that we're clear about
this one as well. Instagram has no
problem with putting a link sticker on
your stories, but Instagram has a
problem with how most people respond
when you put a link sticker on your
stories. Let me explain, and I'll use
easy numbers to make this very simple.
Let's say you post an Instagram story
and you put a link sticker. Maybe it was
an Amazon affiliate link, maybe it was a
new blog post, whatever. You put a link
sticker with that clickable link on your
Instagram stories. Let's say 100 people
viewed your story within that first
hour. And let's say that seven out of
those 100 people were interested. You
made a great case in point and they
clicked on that link.
Those seven people are now going to the
link. They're leaving Instagram, which
some people have theorized Instagram is
not a fan of. However, I don't think
this is necessarily the case. I don't
think Instagram really cares if they're
clicking on a link to leave Instagram.
But what Instagram does care about is
the other 93 people. The 93 people who
they weren't interested in the link and
so what did they do? They skipped your
entire story. Or at the bare minimum,
they tapped on the right side of the
screen to advance to the next slide.
Both of those two forms of engagement
are negative forms of engagement.
They're signals to the Instagram
algorithm that that viewer does not like
the story that they're watching. That
viewer is not interested in the story
that they are watching. And so from the
people who clicked on the link, you got
zero engagement. And from the people who
didn't click on the link, you got
negative engagement. That is why stories
that have a link sticker generally get
less views. Later, I'll talk to you
about what do you do about this. How do
you actually promote something? How do
you actually get people to go visit a
link if you're not going to use a link
sticker? Spoiler alert, it's DM
automation, but we'll talk a little bit
more about that later. And again, before
we move on to the fourth thing that you
should avoid doing, these are things
that you should avoid doing when you
specifically want to get the most
possible views. These are not things
that are like going to put you in
Instagram jail. These are not things
that uh you can never ever do. There are
always exceptions. There are people who
can get great views with a link sticker.
There are people who can get great views
by sharing their reel to their stories.
There are always exceptions, like I
said, but these are the general
recommendations for what you should
avoid doing when you want to get more
views or the max views on your stories.
The fourth thing that I would suggest
avoiding on your Instagram stories is
long talking head stories or really just
long video stories in general. And
again, the problem is not that Instagram
is anti-talking head stories. The
problem is people have horrible
attention spans and they get bored. Let
me give you an example. You click on my
Instagram stories, and there is a
60-second long talking story, right? I'm
telling you a story, I'm talking to the
camera, I'm yapping away for 60 seconds.
Y'all know I'm long-winded. I get so
many comments on these YouTube videos
and podcasts saying, "Brock, you need to
be more concise." I hear you. I'm trying
to be as concise as I can, but I'm also
trying to be as considerate as I can to
the people who are maybe a little bit
newer to Instagram and might need me to
explain things multiple times or use
analogies to better understand things.
So, I'm trying to walk that line. I'm
sorry, getting better at being as
concise as possible while still
delivering the value that people can
understand, but I digress. Oh gosh, I
just did it right there, didn't I?
Anyways, back to what I was saying.
60-second story where I'm just talking
to the camera the whole time. If you're
a viewer and you're watching that, the
only way that you have to interact with
that actual video is by pausing, by
holding your finger down and pausing. If
you mishear a word, if you misunderstand
something that I'm saying, if you get
distracted, if a bird flies by, if your
kid screams and you look away, now you
are faced with the dilemma of either
skipping the rest of the story and just
accepting that, "Hey, I just missed it."
Or the only other option is tapping on
the left side of the screen, going all
the way back to the beginning, and
starting over. There is no way to
fast-forward or rewind on Instagram
stories. There is no way to scrub
through the video and select the exact
moment that you missed or the exact
moment that you left off on and keep
watching. Also, there is that little
timer at the top, and you can estimate
how much longer is in the story, but
there's no real way of knowing. When you
click on a YouTube video, you know how
long it is. And throughout the entire
podcast that you're listening to today,
you can look at the little timer at the
bottom and see exactly how much time is
left in the video, but on Instagram
stories, you don't really know. And so,
you're kind of just signing up, putting
your blind faith in this creator,
whoever it is that you're watching, and
you better hope it's engaging. You
better hope that you can stay engaged
the whole time, or else you're probably
going to end up clicking away. And this
is what we have all dealt with for
years. And so, we have all been trained
now that when it's a really long video
story, unless it's someone we really
care about or a content creator who's
just super captivating, we're probably
going to tap through that story.
Additionally, a lot of people watch
Instagram on mute. And so, if it's a
long talking head story, they're faced
with a dilemma of turning on their audio
or maybe just reading your closed
captions. Either way, it's not the best
user experience. And so, long video
stories, long talking stories will
usually hurt your story views.
Similarly, but slightly different, the
fifth mistake that people are making on
their Instagram stories is over posting.
Now, there is not an exact number that I
can give you of once you post more than
seven stories, you have over posted and
your views will go down. But, it's
basically with each subsequent Instagram
story that you post, the views will get
lower and lower and lower for that first
post. And the views will get smaller and
smaller and smaller and smaller,
significantly smaller for that final
post. To say it another way, if you were
to only post one story in a day, let's
say that you could get 1,000 views on
that Instagram story. But, if you posted
two, now that first clip is only going
to get, let's say, 800 to 900 views. And
that second clip is only going to get
650 to 750 views. So, now the max viewed
story, which is the first one, has a
lower ceiling and each subsequent story
after that, it has continued diminishing
returns. According to some polls that
I've conducted on my own Instagram, it
seems that the sweet spot is about three
to five. And once you start posting more
than five stories in 24-hour period,
that's when people start to see all
those little dashes at the top turn into
little dots and then they start
skipping. That's when people click on
your story and they're like, "Whoa, this
is long. I don't know if I want to sign
up for this entire thing." And so,
they'll skip your entire story, which
like I already talked about is a
negative form of engagement. All right,
you've officially heard all of the
things that you should not be doing on
your Instagram stories. Now, let me
share with you the top three best things
that you can do, the best kinds of
stories that you can post to maximize
your Instagram story views. And we're
going to start off in third place with
stories that get profile visits. What I
mean by this is the Instagram stories
where when someone's watching your
story, they click on your username up in
the upper left corner, and then they go
and visit your profile. This is one of
the reasons why political stories get so
many views. When someone posts a strong
political stance or opinion on their
Instagram stories, it's likely that two
things are going on. Number one, a lot
of people are replying to either agree
or more likely argue. We'll talk more
about that later. But, the second thing
that's going on is that people are
tapping on that person's profile. You're
going to hate to hear this, to unfollow.
But, because so many people are tapping
on the profile as their first action,
Instagram sees that as a positive form
of engagement, and thus they boost the
story up to more people, which means
even more people are going to see it,
and even more people are going to tap on
the profile and unfollow. Now, there are
two main ways that you can get more
people to tap on your profile after
viewing your Instagram story. Now, there
are three main ways that you can get
people to tap on your profile. The third
best way is by encouraging people to
click the link in your bio. I say it's
the third best because I would rather
have you put a link sticker on your
stories, even though we already talked
about that getting you less views, or I
would rather have you use DM automation,
again, we'll talk more about that later,
than telling people to click the link in
your bio. It's kind of weird, it feels
redundant. It's like, why wouldn't you
just give them the link right there?
But, maybe there was a specific reason
why someone had to click on the link in
your bio. Maybe there's a specific uh
reward that they would get or a specific
interaction that would happen when they
clicked on that link in your bio. So,
that's one way that you could get people
to visit your profile. Are you ready to
take your business's marketing to the
next level? Meet Brevo, the all-in-one
marketing and CRM platform that's
designed to help you connect with
customers, boost engagement, and grow
your business smarter. With Brevo, you
can manage all of your customer
interactions in one place, nurture leads
with their built-in CRM, reach your
audience through email and SMS, and keep
them coming back with powerful
automations. But, here's where it gets
really exciting. Meet Aura, Brevo's AI
assistant. Aura helps you craft smarter
campaigns by suggesting personalized
content, optimizing send times, and even
analyzing performance data to improve
your strategy in real-time. It's like
having a marketing expert on your team
who works 24/7. And of course, Brevo
also offers advanced analytics, seamless
integrations, and AI-driven
personalization. Everything that you
need to create multi-channel campaigns
that hit the mark every single time. Get
started for free today, or use code
TRIBE50 to save 50% off their starter
and standard plans for the first 3
months of the annual subscription. Just
head to www.brevo.com/tribe
and take your marketing further with
Brevo and Aura. The second best way that
you could get people to visit your
profile after viewing your Instagram
stories is by hiding some sort of
message or keyword in your bio. Maybe
for a short amount of time, you're going
to edit your bio and put some magic
keyword that people couldn't guess. And
if they go to your bio and they see that
keyword, then they can use that as like
a discount code and get 50% off, or they
can use that as a special way to unlock
some secret content from you. So, it
kind of creates a gamification where
people will click on your profile to
read your bio to win the game. And then
the third and best way to get people to
visit your profile is if there's a post
that you want them to view. Now,
remember earlier I told you that if
you're sharing a reel or any feed post
to your stories, you will get less story
views. So, a creative way that you can
get people to go and watch one of your
posts, yet still use your stories to do
so and not hurt your story views at the
same time, is by taking a screenshot of
your Instagram profile, sharing that to
your Instagram stories, and then
circling or highlighting a specific post
and telling people to go watch that
post. Now, of course, you can turn on
your marketing brain here, and if you
just say, "Go click on this post,"
you're probably not going to get very
many clicks. But, if you can create some
FOMO, some sort of incentive, a
curiosity gap, If you can create a
reason or some tension, so that people
want to go click on that feed post, well
then of course you're going to increase
the odds that they do it, and then
they're going to click on your profile,
they're going to go watch the feed post.
It's a win-win-win. Your story gets more
views because it's getting more profile
visits, and the feed post gets more
views because people are clicking to
view it from your Instagram stories. The
second best way to get more views on
your Instagram stories is by getting
more shares on your Instagram stories.
Now, for the last few years you've been
able to share Instagram stories. What I
mean by that is you could see someone
else's story and you could send it to a
friend to view, but now like I mentioned
earlier and like I mentioned in the
episode a few weeks ago, you can take
someone else's story and re-share it
onto your own story, which really boosts
the views. To give you an example, if I
were to be watching your story and I
sent it to my wife, it would get one
extra view. Now, theoretically the
algorithm would say, "Oh, that's a great
form of engagement, it got a share." And
so it will probably boost it to more of
your followers, but it's really getting
one direct view. Being my wife, the
person I sent it to. But now if I were
watching your story and I shared it to
my own story, anyone who views my story
that day, whether it's 300 or 300,000
people, those views will count for your
Instagram stories. Now, how do you get
more shares on your Instagram stories?
Number one, you have to tell people to
share. I should have mentioned this when
we were talking about getting people to
visit your profile, but you have to
explicitly tell people to visit your
profile. You have to say, "Click on this
button." You have to draw an arrow up to
your username. You have to tell people a
call to action to visit my profile.
Similarly, if you want people to share
your story, tell them to share your
story and make it obvious. Especially
since this is a newer feature, you're
probably going to have to draw an arrow
down to the bottom right where that
share button is, and tell people, "Share
this to your story." And probably give
them an incentive or a reason why.
Besides just telling people though,
there's an acronym that I've come up
with to help you remember what is a
share-worthy Instagram story. And the
acronym is pretty easy to remember, it
is share itself. S H A R E. S stands for
simple. Your story needs to be easy to
understand. If it's super complex, if
it's hard to read, if it's using big
vocab, it will go over people's head, it
won't hit home, and it will not be
share-worthy. The H stands for hook.
Just like a great reel, just like a
great book, just like a great YouTube
video or a podcast, it has to start with
a strong hook. Something that's going to
grab people's attention and actually
make them want to stick around to watch
the rest of your video or read the rest
of the text on the screen in your story.
The A stands for authentic, and there is
nothing more authentic than an Instagram
story. With most content, I say that
authenticity comes from speed.
Basically, the shorter time you can get
between idea and execution or something
that you want to post and actually
posting it, the more authentic it'll be.
With Instagram stories, it should be in
the moment. With Instagram stories, it
should be how you're feeling at that
moment, what you're going through, the
challenge or the triumph, the struggles
or the wins. I want you to share in the
moment, and that will be way more
authentic than trying to plan or script
or use ChatGPT to write what your
Instagram story is going to say. The R
in the acronym stands for relatable.
Relatability comes from specificity. So,
if you were to type an Instagram story
telling us about your morning and you
were like, "I woke up and I had such a
bad day and I was really frustrated and
then things got a little bit better, but
then they got worse, but then I figured
out this other thing." It's so vague,
it's not relatable. But if instead you
were like, "I woke up 15 minutes before
my alarm went off, which was not a good
thing because I already knew that I
needed to catch up on sleep. But then, 5
minutes later, the fire alarm went off."
Right? And you're giving these specific
details. While no one else watching that
story is likely experiencing the exact
same thing, while no one else woke up
exactly 15 minutes before their alarm
that day and then the fire alarm went
off and all these other things, it's
those specific details that paint a more
vivid picture in our head and thus allow
us to relate. Not to get too scientific
on you, but basically when we hear a
story, our mirror neurons are firing.
And the more vivid of a picture that you
paint by using more specific details,
the more those mirror neurons can allow
us to connect and relate with you as the
creator. And then the E stands for
entertaining. While there is plenty of
value in educational content, it remains
true that humans want to be entertained.
They want to be captivated. And so, when
you focus on entertainment first, that
will ensure that people actually want to
continue viewing your story rather than
just three tips to being a better rock
climber, tell us the story of how you
learned those three tips. Tell us the
story of the mistakes that you made when
you were getting into rock climbing.
Tell us the story of one of your clients
and how they overcame one of those
mistakes rather than just giving us some
more education. Also, generally
speaking, share-worthy Instagram stories
will fall into one of the five following
categories. Category number one is
inspirational Instagram stories. These
are the powerful quotes, the
motivational stories, the spiritual
verses, the things that really made an
impact for you. I want you to stay away
from the overdone, overused clichés,
right? If I post a story that says,
"Live, laugh, love." It's not going to
get very many shares. But if instead I
put a multi-sentence quote from a book
that I just read that when I read it, I
had to sit down and close the book for a
second because I was like, "Wow, that is
powerful." That's the sort of story that
would get shares. The second kind of
story that gets shares is
community-oriented stories. And what I
mean by these are stories that promote
good causes. They raise awareness. They
are promoting a charity or something
that we need to pay more attention to.
Those sorts of stories are kind of for
the greater good and thus get more
shares. The third kind of story that
gets a lot of shares is relatable humor
stories or really just relatable stories
in general. I know we already talked
about the R in the share acronym, but
memes and quick little sound bites and
those sorts of things are oftentimes
very share-worthy. The third kind of
thing that is very share-worthy is
controversial stories. Now, I'm not
saying that you need to call someone
out, you need to be rude or political.
And we actually already talked about how
that can have a positive effect on your
story views, but a negative effect on
your following. I just mean post hot
takes, unpopular opinions, debunk some
myths. Those sorts of things can be very
share-worthy, especially when they're
related to your niche. They don't have
to necessarily directly or always relate
to your niche, but when they do, it will
be likely more relevant to more of your
followers. For the last few years, I've
been using Notion to basically organize
my entire life. It's so much more than
just a to-do list app, it's truly a
one-stop shop for organizing any area of
your life or business. And it's not just
great at organization, it's also great
at automations as well. There's so many
complex things that you can do and build
that can happen automatically and
instantly within Notion. And now, for
the first time, they're introducing
Notion AI Agents. The new Notion Custom
Agents will allow you to automatically
perform advanced tasks without you even
having to lift a finger. For example, I
built a Notion Custom Agent that
automatically pulls the link to any reel
that I've posted, and then it pulls out
the text that I say or the text on the
screen in the first few seconds of the
reel. Basically, it pulls out my hook.
And then it's able to look at how that
post performed and compare it to the
hook, which allows me to see which hooks
are actually working so that I can reuse
them and tweak them for future reels.
Notion is an AI-powered connected
workspace for teams. Notion brings all
of your notes, docs, and projects into
one space that just works. It's
seamless, flexible, powerful, and with
AI built in, you spend less time
switching between different apps and
tools, and more time creating great
work. Now, with Notion's Custom Agents,
busy work that used to take hours, or
let's be honest, didn't really get done
at all, runs itself. The easiest way to
think about the difference between a
Custom Agent and normal AI is that
normal AI requires you as the human to
prompt it, but Custom Agents work for
you 24/7 behind the scenes without you
having to lift a finger. But don't just
take my word for it. Notion is used by
more than half of Fortune 500 companies
and some of the fastest growing
companies in the world like OpenAI, the
company behind ChatGPT. Try Custom
Agents now at notion.com/byt.
That's all lowercase Notion n o t i o n
.com/byt
to try Custom Agents today and when you
use my link you're supporting our show.
Again, notion.com/byt.
And then the fifth kind of story that is
very share-worthy, probably the most
share-worthy of all, is timely Instagram
stories. Timely Instagram stories are
stories that have breaking news or they
are relating to breaking news. So, maybe
you're going to break the news of
someone winning a gold medal at the
Olympics. That is a story that might get
a lot of shares. But if you're not in
the sports niche, if people don't rely
on you for breaking sports news, instead
maybe you're going to talk about the
breaking news, you're going to talk
about the person who won a gold medal at
the Olympics, and you're going to relate
it back to your niche by talking about
their hair or their style or their
mental health if you're in the mental
health niche or you're going to talk
about their social media strategy if
you're a social media marketer. It's
basically taking something outside of
your niche or adjacent to your niche and
relating it back to your niche because
it's breaking news. This is also what I
like to call taking a nap. A nap is
another acronym that stands for niche
adjacent post. Again, it's taking
something that the general pop culture
society is talking about, thinking about
it, it's in the news, maybe it's like
the Chris Rock slap or the Coldplay
concert where the CEO was caught
cheating on his wife. Those sorts of
things where everyone's kind of talking
about it and buzzing about it. If you
can find a way to relate that back to
your niche, it will be timely, relevant,
and thus more share-worthy. All right,
with all that being said, the number one
best way to get more story views, the
way that you're going to get your max
story views, is to create Instagram
stories that get more replies. According
to Adam Mosseri, the head of Instagram,
Instagram is a place where friends can
connect with each other in the DMs. They
have a huge focus on direct messages
over at Instagram because they recognize
that business owners and content
creators like us are the ones who are
posting on the feed, but
friend-to-friend, people are interacting
with each other in the DMs way more. In
fact, more content is sent via direct
message every single day than is posted
to the feed. And so, with this in mind,
Instagram has tweaked their algorithms
to reward stories that get people
talking, that get people replying with
direct messages. And so, the number one
best form of engagement that your
Instagram story can receive is a reply.
With that in mind, I have come up with a
strategy with a very inappropriate name.
It's named inappropriately so that you
will not forget it, and this is the
exact strategy to maximize your story
views. And that strategy is called the
STD strategy. Here are the steps in the
STD strategy. Step number one, allow
your existing stories to expire. I hope
by this point in the episode you know
this already, but in case you don't,
Instagram stories expire after 24 hours.
What I mean by that is 24 hours after
they were originally posted, they are no
longer visible to anyone in your
audience. They go into what's called
your archive. So, if at the time of
watching this you posted a story 17
hours ago, you're going to have to wait
7 more hours for it to expire. You could
delete your Instagram stories. However,
I find it's usually slightly better to
just allow them to expire rather than
deleting them before their time ends.
Step number two is where we get into the
acronym. Step number two is to post a
single story, S standing for single. And
when I say single story, I basically
mean one clip. Like I said earlier, the
more clips you post, the less views you
get. So, I recommend posting one, a
maximum of three, but ideally just one
singular Instagram story. And that
brings us to step number three. What
should actually be on the story? Like
what should you actually post? It is
going to be a text-heavy story. That's
what the T stands for, text-heavy. And
And I say text-heavy, I mean multiple
sentences of text. You could put it on
just a solid background, but we found
that stories that have a person's face
in them usually get more views. So, to
facilitate this and make this happen, I
usually will just take a selfie of
myself where my face is kind of like
down in the bottom right corner. I put
myself down the bottom right corner so
that I have more dead space, more open
space on the screen to write my text.
That's what we found works the best. And
when I say text heavy, again, I want you
to have multiple sentences of text.
Usually, if you're going to do more than
three sentences of text in a single
block, I will recommend putting a space
in between it so that they're kind of
like different paragraphs. You don't
want to have like seven or eight or 15
sentences all without any break cuz then
when people view it, they're going to be
like, "Whoa, that's a lot to read." And
realistically, most people aren't going
to be reading the whole thing word for
word. They're going to be doing what
most people do most of the time, which
is skimming. And so, if you break things
up into one-to-three-sentence chunks or
one-to-three-sentence paragraphs, it
makes the skimming and readability much
easier. As a pro tip, I will also often
highlight certain keywords in a
different color to really make them pop
and stand out so that when people are
skimming, their eyes can just dart from
keyword to keyword and they can take in
the whole story in a shorter amount of
time. And when I say text heavy, you
could do just a couple sentences of
text, but you do want to do at least a
couple. You don't want to just have one
sentence or maybe even just a few words.
You want to at least have, let's say,
three sentences of text because that
will increase the watch time that people
have. When you post a photo story, which
again, that's what this is. We're not
posting a video story. You're not
talking to the camera. This is just a
single photo story. It will be on
people's screen for 3 to 5 seconds. But,
if people see that text and they know
it's going to take them more than 3 to 5
seconds to read it, they will hold their
finger down to pause and read. Now, I
should actually pause myself right now
and say that you need to know your
audience on this one. If you have a
younger audience or a more tech-savvy
audience, they will instinctually know
that if they hold their finger down,
they can pause the story and read it. If
you have maybe a little bit of an older
audience, a more tech-averse audience,
then you might want to put a little
piece of text yourself that says, "Hold
here to pause." Or, "Place finger here
to pause." Or, "Hold finger to pause and
read." Something like that, so that they
know what they should do to actually
pause the story. And then, over time, if
you consistently use the strategy, you
won't necessarily have to do that every
time cuz you will have essentially
trained your audience to know that they
can hold their finger down to pause and
read. Now that we have the T, that
brings us to the D, the most important
part. And as this sign says right here,
let me grab it for you.
You can't have an STD without the D. I
know that's super funny. Again, this
entire strategy was named
inappropriately and funnily, so that
hopefully you remember it. And by the
way, this sign was sent to me by Donna
of 3:00 a.m. Grace Design. So, shout out
to her. She heard me say this on a
previous podcast episode and made this
sign for me. It sits behind me now. But,
the D is the most important part.
Because like we've talked about already,
getting a DM, a direct message, a reply
to your story is the key ingredient.
Sure, it's helpful if people are holding
down and they're increasing their watch
time and they're reading your story, but
if they're not replying, your story will
not spike in views. You want to give
people a specific call to action at the
bottom of your story to reply with the
word blank in order to get blank. And
whatever thing they're getting, it
should be something that's actually
appealing, or else they're probably not
going to reply. If you just say, "Reply
for more info." Or, "Reply for the link
to my million-dollar mastermind." Not
very many people are going to reply.
But, if they're replying for a discount
code, or a freebie, or a digital guide,
or something that's like really
exciting, some news that they are dying
to learn about, and you get a lot of
replies, that's what will spike your
story views. Now, theoretically, that's
all you need to happen. And
theoretically, you could have people
reply with a specific keyword, and then
you could manually go in and reply to
every single person. However, I ain't
got time for that. And so, instead, what
I would recommend doing, even if you
think you're only going to have a couple
of people replying to your story, is to
sign up for a tool like ManyChat that
allows you to automate the response.
This is what I mentioned earlier of DM
automation. It's very easy to set up.
You can turn it on so that when people
say a specific keyword, they get some
sort of message in response giving them
whatever they were originally looking
for. That is the STD formula. And then,
the final step in the formula is don't
post anything else. That defeats step
one of letting your stories expire. Let
that single story be the only thing up
for 24 hours. Don't post anything else.
No resharing from the feed. No video
stories. Nothing for the next 24 hours.
And theoretically, that will be your
most viewed story of all time. I forgot
to ask you because I'm horrible at
asking. If you haven't already, don't
forget to hit subscribe because what
we've seen is that over 70% of our
regular viewers are not subscribed. So,
just quickly double-check before you
scroll onto the next video. Double-check
that you are subscribed. And if nothing
else, thank you so much for watching.
And as always, happy networking.